docs/feeders/6-loading-tape/loading-tape.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033-->
# Loading Tape

<!-- This video shows how tape is loaded into the feeder, and the functionality of the buttons.

!!! Note "Keep In Mind"
    Don't worry if something in the video doesn't look exactly like what you have in the box. We’re constantly tuning and tweaking things to make them better and easier to use, so you might find things look slightly different.
<div class="video-wrapper">
<iframe width="560" height="315" margin="auto" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rVsv2GUO0Tg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div> -->

!!! Note
    See also the [Feeder Buttons](../1-overview/feeder-overview.md#feeder-buttons) documentation for manually driving your feeders.

1. Cut the tape straight across one of the indexing holes, leaving a semicircle.

      ![Cutting component tape](img/cut-tape.webp)

      ![cut tape with cut indexing hole](img/cut-tape2.webp)

2. Peel back a few millimeters of film.

      ![Peeling back tape with tweezers](img/IMG_2170.webp)

3. Feed the tape into the opening on the back of the feeder, film side up.

      ![Loading tape into the back of the feeder](img/IMG_2171.webp)

4. Align the semicircle in the tape to the first tooth on the drive wheel.

      ![Tape loaded into the feeder with the indexing hole on the drive wheel](img/IMG_2174.webp)

5. Guide the few millimeters of loose film out of the pick window.

      ![Holding tape film with tweezers](img/IMG_2172.webp)

6. Press and hold the forward button while pulling upwards on film.

      ![GIF Holding the forward button and pulling the film off the component tape](img/pull-film-while-driving.webp)

7. Wrap the film around the feeder and guide it into the slot leading to the peel gears.

      ![GIF Wrapping the film around the feeder](img/wrap-around-film.webp)

      ![Film tucked into its guide slot](img/film-guide-1.webp)

8. Press and hold both buttons until the status light turns yellow to switch into Peel mode.

    ![GIF pressing both buttons on the feeder](img/change-modes.webp)

    !!! note "Toggling Modes"
        Pressing and holding both buttons toggles between Drive and Peel modes. A blue status light indicates you've switched to Drive mode, and a yellow status light indicates you've switched to Peel mode.

9. Press and hold the forward button to spin the peel motor, and feed film in between the two straight gears. Stop when the film is taut.

    ![GIF loading film into the peel gears](img/loading-film.webp)

    !!! danger "Watch Out"
        Make sure that when you feed film into your peel gears, you guide the film away from the worm gear. It's important to prevent it from getting caught between the worm gear and a peel gear, as this can damage the peel gear. Ensure your film doesn't get caught when loading film.
        ![Film incorrectly stuck between peel and worm gear](img/film-caught.webp)
        ![Film correctly flowing out the peel gears](img/film-free.webp)

10. Check to make sure that the film is caught behind the peg that prevents the film from leaving the slot.

      ![Film tucked behind guide peg](img/film-guide-modified-2.webp)

      ![Film tucked behind guide peg angle 2](img/film-in-gears-modified.webp)

11. Tap the forward button to feed a part and ensure that the tape is loaded correctly. **You need to feed the feeder at least twice to ensure consistent feeding in the future.**

      ![GIF successful feeding](img/feed-forward.webp)

## Next Steps

Next, you'll [set pick position](../7-setting-pick-position/setting-pick-position.md).

Commit message:

adds instructions for film leaders

docs/feeders/6-loading-tape/loading-tape.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033-->
# Loading Tape

<!-- This video shows how tape is loaded into the feeder, and the functionality of the buttons.

!!! Note "Keep In Mind"
    Don't worry if something in the video doesn't look exactly like what you have in the box. We’re constantly tuning and tweaking things to make them better and easier to use, so you might find things look slightly different.
<div class="video-wrapper">
<iframe width="560" height="315" margin="auto" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rVsv2GUO0Tg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div> -->

!!! Note
    See also the [Feeder Buttons](../1-overview/feeder-overview.md#feeder-buttons) documentation for manually driving your feeders.

1. Cut the tape straight across one of the indexing holes, leaving a semicircle.

      ![Cutting component tape](img/cut-tape.webp)

      ![cut tape with cut indexing hole](img/cut-tape2.webp)

    !!! note "Using Film Extensions"

        [Film extensions](https://www.opulo.io/products/film-extensions) are strips of film with an adhesive end that allow you to load a feeder without wasting parts.

        First, remove the paper covering the adhesive on the yellow end of the extension

        ![](img/DSC00008.webp)
        ![](img/DSC00010.webp)

        Apply the adhesive end onto the film on the end of your tape. Make sure to press it down. Align the end of the adhesive with the end of the tape.

        ![](img/DSC00011.webp)
        ![](img/DSC00012.webp)

        Peel back a little bit of the film to get it started.

        ![](img/DSC00013.webp)

        Load the tape into the feeder, and guide the film out of the pick window.

        ![](img/DSC00014.webp)

        Trim the extension beyond a few centimeters beyond the peel gears.

        ![](img/DSC00015.webp)

        Continue to load the feeder starting from Step 7 below.



2. Peel back a few millimeters of film.

      ![Peeling back tape with tweezers](img/IMG_2170.webp)

3. Feed the tape into the opening on the back of the feeder, film side up.

      ![Loading tape into the back of the feeder](img/IMG_2171.webp)

4. Align the semicircle in the tape to the first tooth on the drive wheel.

      ![Tape loaded into the feeder with the indexing hole on the drive wheel](img/IMG_2174.webp)

5. Guide the few millimeters of loose film out of the pick window.

      ![Holding tape film with tweezers](img/IMG_2172.webp)

6. Press and hold the forward button while pulling upwards on film.

      ![GIF Holding the forward button and pulling the film off the component tape](img/pull-film-while-driving.webp)

7. Wrap the film around the feeder and guide it into the slot leading to the peel gears.

      ![GIF Wrapping the film around the feeder](img/wrap-around-film.webp)

      ![Film tucked into its guide slot](img/film-guide-1.webp)

8. Press and hold both buttons until the status light turns yellow to switch into Peel mode.

    ![GIF pressing both buttons on the feeder](img/change-modes.webp)

    !!! note "Toggling Modes"
        Pressing and holding both buttons toggles between Drive and Peel modes. A blue status light indicates you've switched to Drive mode, and a yellow status light indicates you've switched to Peel mode.

9. Press and hold the forward button to spin the peel motor, and feed film in between the two straight gears. Stop when the film is taut.

    ![GIF loading film into the peel gears](img/loading-film.webp)

    !!! danger "Watch Out"
        Make sure that when you feed film into your peel gears, you guide the film away from the worm gear. It's important to prevent it from getting caught between the worm gear and a peel gear, as this can damage the peel gear. Ensure your film doesn't get caught when loading film.
        ![Film incorrectly stuck between peel and worm gear](img/film-caught.webp)
        ![Film correctly flowing out the peel gears](img/film-free.webp)

10. Check to make sure that the film is caught behind the peg that prevents the film from leaving the slot.

      ![Film tucked behind guide peg](img/film-guide-modified-2.webp)

      ![Film tucked behind guide peg angle 2](img/film-in-gears-modified.webp)

11. Tap the forward button to feed a part and ensure that the tape is loaded correctly. **You need to feed the feeder at least twice to ensure consistent feeding in the future.**

      ![GIF successful feeding](img/feed-forward.webp)

## Next Steps

Next, you'll [set pick position](../7-setting-pick-position/setting-pick-position.md).
