docs/semi-assembly-4-0/frame/index.md, before:

---
title: "LumenPnP v4 Assembly - Frame"
description: Putting together the frame of the v4 LumenPnP
---

## Rails

1. Remove the left and right leg assemblies from the second tray.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2737.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2738.webp)

2. Remove the two aluminum rails from underneath the cable chain in the first tray.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2739.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2740.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2741.webp)

3. Stand the left and right leg assemblies upright on the tabletop as shown below. The left leg assembly has a cable harness labeled `Y1`, and the tensioner arm pivot is on the left. The right leg assembly has a cable harness labeled `Y2` and the tensioner arm pivot is on the right. Check the photos below for reference.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2745.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2746.webp)

4. Tilt the left Y gantry on its side as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2748.webp)

5. Remove `2x` M5x10mm socket head screws and `2x` T-slot nuts from your hardware bag.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2749.webp)

    !!! note "Tip"
        Use the sillouettes of the bolts on the hardware kit bag to easily identify bolts.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2752.webp)

6. Insert one of the M5x10mm screws into the front left leg as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2754.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2755.webp)

7. Attach a T-slot nut onto the screw.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2760.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2761.webp)

1.  Orient the nuts vertically as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2762.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2763.webp)

9.  Grab the front rail. It only has one right-angle bracket attached to each side, and has slots labeled 1-25.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2764.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2766.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2765.webp)

10. Grab `2x` M5x8mm button head bolts and `2x` T-slot nuts from the hardware kit bag. Drop the bolts into the open holes in the right angle brackets and loosely thread the T-slot nuts onto them.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2768.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2769.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2770.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2778.webp)

1. Align the nuts perpendicular to the rail as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2779.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2780.webp)

11. Align the front rail and left leg subassembly as shown in the image below. Make sure that the rotation of the t-slot nuts match the image.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2783.webp)

12. Rotate the front rail upward as shown in the pictures below. Make sure the t-slot nut in the bracket on the front rail fits inside the bottom extrusion of the left leg subassembly. The front rail and right angle bracket should sit flush against the extrusion.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2784.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2785.webp)

13. Slide the front rail into the front left leg. Make sure it's completely pushed into the leg with no gaps. Tighten the two screws to hold the front rail in place as shown below.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2786.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2787.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2788.webp)

14. Rotate the assembly down flat on the table.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2789.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2790.webp)

15. Attach the remaining M5x10mm socket head and t-slot nut into the front right leg in the same way as you did for the front left leg.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2791.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2792.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2793.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2794.webp)

16. Orient the nut as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2795.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2796.webp)

17. Lift the front rail up into the bottom extrusion of the right leg subassembly, and slide it towards you into the front right leg as shown. Tighten the front screw in place.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2797.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2798.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2799.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2800.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2801.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2802.webp)

18. Lift up the machine onto its back legs, and tighten in the final loose screw on the front right leg.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2803.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2804.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2805.webp)

19. Get the back rail. It has two right angle brackets on each side, and slots numbered 26-50. Get `4x` M5x8mm button heads and `4x` T-slot nuts and mount them into the open holes in the right angle brackets as shown below. Do this for all four brackets.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2808.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2809.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2806.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2810.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2811.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2812.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2813.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2814.webp)

20. Align the t-slot nuts perpendicular to the rail as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2818.webp)

21. Place the back rail across the back legs as shown. Rotate it upwards into the bottom extrusion of the left leg subassembly, ensuring that both t-slot nuts fit into the v-slot. It should be flush against the rail.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2819.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2820.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2821.webp)


22. Make sure that the right side of the back rail has fit into the right leg extrusion. You might find that the back legs need to be pulled together or apart a little in order to get them to fit; **this is ok**. The back rail should be flush with the extrusion if the t-slot nuts have been inserted into the extrusion correctly.

    ![alt text](img/back-rail-offset.webp)

23. Slide the back rail up and let the left side of it rest on the spacing bracket included in your tool kit. Make sure it's resting on the short side (50mm). Lightly tighten the top screw on the left side, making sure to keep the end of the extrusion and right angle brackets perfectly flush with the side of the extrusion.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2830.webp)
    ![alt text](img/bracket-flush-left.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2833.webp)

24. Use the bracket to set the spacing on the right side, and make sure the right angle brackets are perfectly flush with the right side extrusion. Tighten both screws into place.  Go back to the left side and tighten the bottom screw.

    ![alt text](img/bracket-flush-right.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2834.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2835.webp)

25. Bring the machine back down onto four legs.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2837.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2838.webp)

26. Slide both Y gantries to the back of the machine (opposite the tension arms).

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2839.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2840.webp)

27. Grab the X gantry from the packaging and fit it onto the Y gantries as shown. Make sure the toolhead motors are facing you like the image below.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2842.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2843.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2844.webp)

28. Attach the X gantry to the Y gantries by installing a M5x25 socket head screw and M5x16mm socket head screw into the two holes on each side of the X gantry assembly.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2846.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2847.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2848.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2849.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2850.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2851.webp)

29. Tip the machine back up onto its back legs, and install front leg extensions onto the front legs with `2x` M5x16mm socket head screws for each leg.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2853.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2854.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2856.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2857.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2858.webp)

30. Install a back leg extension onto each of the back legs with an M5x16mm socket head screw for each leg.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2859.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2860.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2861.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2862.webp)

31. Bring the machine back down onto four legs.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2863.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2864.webp)

## Plates

1. Remove the staging plate and build plate from the first tray. The staging plate is packed under the control box.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2865.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2866.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2867.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2868.webp)

2. The staging plate has the bottom camera mounted to it. The build plate is bare.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2870.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2871.webp)

3. Get the static camera foot and the gold thumb screws from the packaging.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2872.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2873.webp)

4. Line up the bottom camera cable with the cutout in the static camera foot as shown, and secure it in place using the two thumb screws.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2874.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2875.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2876.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2877.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2878.webp)

5. Grab the build plate foot from the packaging, and remove the screw threaded into one end.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2879.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2880.webp)

1. Drop the screw through the very center of the build plate, making sure that it's facing upwards by looking for the "LumenPnP Staging Plate" text in the corner to confirm. Attach the build plate foot with the bolt using an allen key.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2881.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2882.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2884.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2885.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2886.webp)

6. Get 8x M5x8mm button head screws and 8x t-slot nuts from your hardware bag.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2887.webp)

7. Insert the button head screws through the large holes in the four corners of each plate. Make sure you are inserting them from the side of the plate that has the "LumenPnP Staging Plate" text in the corner, and not from the side with the Opulo logo. Loosely thread a t-slot nut onto the opposite side of each screw.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2881.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2890.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2893.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2894.webp)

8. The plates should look like the image below.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2896.webp)

9. Pull out any wires tucked into the Y gantries, and leave them loose in the center of the machine to clear way for the plates to be mounted.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2897.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2898.webp)

10. Place the staging plate into the machine as shown below. Have it rest on the lower of the two extrusions in each leg assembly. Make sure the staging plate's orientation matches the images below.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2900.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2901.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2902.webp)

11. Make sure that the staging plate is sitting flush on the extrusions. The T-slot nut should fit inside the slot in the extrusion.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2906.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2907.webp)

12. Get the alignment bracket that you used earlier.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2908.webp)

13. Place the bracket along the front rail with the long side pointing away from you. Arrange the staging plate so that it is flat against the bracket.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2909.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2910.webp)

14. While ensuring that the flat edge of the staging is flush against the side of the extrusion, tighten the screw closest to the front of the machine. Don't tighten the back one yet.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2916.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2911.webp)

15. Move the alignment bracket to the right side. Tighten both screws on the right side while ensuring the staging plate is pushed up against the alignment bracket.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2913.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2914.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2918.webp)

16. Tighten the second screw on the left side of the machine.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2917.webp)

17. Place the build plate onto the same rail as the staging plate. Ensure the t-slot nuts are fully inserted into the extrusion.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2919.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2920.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2906.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2907.webp)

18. Slide the build plate against the staging plate.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2921.webp)

1. Make sure the build plate is flush with the extrusion, and tighten all four screws.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2916.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2918.webp)

1. Get the Y striker from the packaging.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2924.webp)

20. Slide the Y striker into the slot in the front left leg as shown, and secure in place using an M5x25mm socket head bolt.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2925.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2926.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2927.webp)

You've completed the LumenPnP frame assembly. Next is installing the [electronics](../electronics/index.md).

Commit message:

many tweaks, note about nozzle tip swapping, squaring, lighting affecting vision, mentioning 12mm feeder, assembly time

docs/semi-assembly-4-0/frame/index.md, after:

---
title: "LumenPnP v4 Assembly - Frame"
description: Putting together the frame of the v4 LumenPnP
---

## Rails

1. Remove the left and right leg assemblies from the second tray.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2737.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2738.webp)

2. Remove the two aluminum rails from underneath the cable chain in the first tray.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2739.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2740.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2741.webp)

3. Stand the left and right leg assemblies upright on the tabletop as shown below. The left leg assembly has a cable harness labeled `Y1`, and the tensioner arm pivot is on the left. The right leg assembly has a cable harness labeled `Y2` and the tensioner arm pivot is on the right. Check the photos below for reference.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2745.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2746.webp)

4. Tilt the left Y gantry on its side as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2748.webp)

5. Remove `2x` M5x10mm socket head screws and `2x` T-slot nuts from your hardware bag.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2749.webp)

    !!! note "Tip"
        Use the sillouettes of the bolts on the hardware kit bag to easily identify bolts.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2752.webp)

6. Insert one of the M5x10mm screws into the front left leg as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2754.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2755.webp)

7. Attach a T-slot nut onto the screw.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2760.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2761.webp)

1.  Orient the nuts vertically as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2762.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2763.webp)

9.  Grab the front rail. It only has one right-angle bracket attached to each side, and has slots labeled 1-25.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2764.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2766.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2765.webp)

10. Grab `2x` M5x8mm button head bolts and `2x` T-slot nuts from the hardware kit bag. Drop the bolts into the open holes in the right angle brackets and loosely thread the T-slot nuts onto them.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2768.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2769.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2770.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2778.webp)

1. Align the nuts perpendicular to the rail as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2779.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2780.webp)

11. Align the front rail and left leg subassembly as shown in the image below. Make sure that the rotation of the t-slot nuts match the image.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2783.webp)

12. Rotate the front rail upward as shown in the pictures below. Make sure the t-slot nut in the bracket on the front rail fits inside the bottom extrusion of the left leg subassembly. The front rail and right angle bracket should sit flush against the extrusion.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2784.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2785.webp)

13. Slide the front rail into the front left leg. Make sure it's completely pushed into the leg with no gaps. Tighten the two screws to hold the front rail in place as shown below.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2786.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2787.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2788.webp)

14. Rotate the assembly down flat on the table.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2789.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2790.webp)

15. Attach the remaining M5x10mm socket head and t-slot nut into the front right leg in the same way as you did for the front left leg.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2791.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2792.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2793.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2794.webp)

16. Orient the nut as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2795.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2796.webp)

17. Lift the front rail up into the bottom extrusion of the right leg subassembly, and slide it towards you into the front right leg as shown. Tighten the front screw in place.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2797.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2798.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2799.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2800.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2801.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2802.webp)

18. Lift up the machine onto its back legs, and tighten in the final loose screw on the front right leg.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2803.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2804.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2805.webp)

19. Get the back rail. It has two right angle brackets on each side, and slots numbered 26-50. Get `4x` M5x8mm button heads and `4x` T-slot nuts and mount them into the open holes in the right angle brackets as shown below. Do this for all four brackets.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2808.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2809.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2806.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2810.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2811.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2812.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2813.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2814.webp)

20. Align the t-slot nuts perpendicular to the rail as shown.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2818.webp)

21. Place the back rail across the back legs as shown. Rotate it upwards into the bottom extrusion of the left leg subassembly, ensuring that both t-slot nuts fit into the v-slot. It should be flush against the rail.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2819.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2820.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2821.webp)


22. Make sure that the right side of the back rail has fit into the right leg extrusion. You might find that the back legs need to be pulled together or apart a little in order to get them to fit; **this is ok**. The back rail should be flush with the extrusion if the t-slot nuts have been inserted into the extrusion correctly.

    ![alt text](img/back-rail-offset.webp)

23. Slide the back rail up and let the left side of it rest on the spacing bracket included in your tool kit. Make sure it's resting on the short side (50mm). Lightly tighten the top screw on the left side, making sure to keep the end of the extrusion and right angle brackets perfectly flush with the side of the extrusion.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2830.webp)
    ![alt text](img/bracket-flush-left.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2833.webp)

24. Use the bracket to set the spacing on the right side, and make sure the right angle brackets are perfectly flush with the right side extrusion. Tighten both screws into place.  Go back to the left side and tighten the bottom screw.

    ![alt text](img/bracket-flush-right.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2834.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2835.webp)

25. Bring the machine back down onto four legs.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2837.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2838.webp)

    !!! danger "Check for Squareness"
        Now is the best time to adjust your frame to ensure it's been assembled square.

        Take the build plate from your packaging and drop it onto the rails.

        ![](img/IMG_2871.webp)

        Pull the staging plate completely forward in the machine, and make sure the edge is flush with the extrusion on both sides of the machine. Then slide to the back of the machine and do the same. Loosen any frame bolts you just mounted to adjust until both sides of the staging plate are flush with the extrusion both at the front and back of the machine.

        ![](img/IMG_2916.webp)

26. Slide both Y gantries to the back of the machine (opposite the tension arms).

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2839.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2840.webp)

27. Grab the X gantry from the packaging and fit it onto the Y gantries as shown. Make sure the toolhead motors are facing you like the image below.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2842.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2843.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2844.webp)

28. Attach the X gantry to the Y gantries by installing a M5x25 socket head screw and M5x16mm socket head screw into the two holes on each side of the X gantry assembly.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2846.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2847.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2848.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2849.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2850.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2851.webp)

29. Tip the machine back up onto its back legs, and install front leg extensions onto the front legs with `2x` M5x16mm socket head screws for each leg.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2853.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2854.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2856.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2857.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2858.webp)

30. Install a back leg extension onto each of the back legs with an M5x16mm socket head screw for each leg.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2859.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2860.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2861.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2862.webp)

31. Bring the machine back down onto four legs.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2863.webp) ![alt text](img/IMG_2864.webp)

## Plates

1. Remove the staging plate and build plate from the first tray. The staging plate is packed under the control box.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2865.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2866.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2867.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2868.webp)

2. The staging plate has the bottom camera mounted to it. The build plate is bare.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2870.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2871.webp)

3. Get the static camera foot and the gold thumb screws from the packaging.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2872.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2873.webp)

4. Line up the bottom camera cable with the cutout in the static camera foot as shown, and secure it in place using the two thumb screws.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2874.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2875.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2876.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2877.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2878.webp)

5. Grab the build plate foot from the packaging, and remove the screw threaded into one end.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2879.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2880.webp)

1. Drop the screw through the very center of the build plate, making sure that it's facing upwards by looking for the "LumenPnP Staging Plate" text in the corner to confirm. Attach the build plate foot with the bolt using an allen key.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2881.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2882.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2884.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2885.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2886.webp)

6. Get 8x M5x8mm button head screws and 8x t-slot nuts from your hardware bag.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2887.webp)

7. Insert the button head screws through the large holes in the four corners of each plate. Make sure you are inserting them from the side of the plate that has the "LumenPnP Staging Plate" text in the corner, and not from the side with the Opulo logo. Loosely thread a t-slot nut onto the opposite side of each screw.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2881.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2890.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2893.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2894.webp)

8. The plates should look like the image below.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2896.webp)

9. Pull out any wires tucked into the Y gantries, and leave them loose in the center of the machine to clear way for the plates to be mounted.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2897.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2898.webp)

10. Place the staging plate into the machine as shown below. Have it rest on the lower of the two extrusions in each leg assembly. Make sure the staging plate's orientation matches the images below.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2900.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2901.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2902.webp)

11. Make sure that the staging plate is sitting flush on the extrusions. The T-slot nut should fit inside the slot in the extrusion.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2906.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2907.webp)

12. Get the alignment bracket that you used earlier.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2908.webp)

13. Place the bracket along the front rail with the long side pointing away from you. Arrange the staging plate so that it is flat against the bracket.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2909.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2910.webp)

14. While ensuring that the flat edge of the staging is flush against the side of the extrusion, tighten the screw closest to the front of the machine. Don't tighten the back one yet.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2916.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2911.webp)

15. Move the alignment bracket to the right side. Tighten both screws on the right side while ensuring the staging plate is pushed up against the alignment bracket.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2913.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2914.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2918.webp)

16. Tighten the second screw on the left side of the machine.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2917.webp)

17. Place the build plate onto the same rail as the staging plate. Ensure the t-slot nuts are fully inserted into the extrusion.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2919.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2920.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2906.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2907.webp)

18. Slide the build plate against the staging plate.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2921.webp)

1. Make sure the build plate is flush with the extrusion, and tighten all four screws.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2916.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2918.webp)

1. Get the Y striker from the packaging.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2924.webp)

20. Slide the Y striker into the slot in the front left leg as shown, and secure in place using an M5x25mm socket head bolt.

    ![alt text](img/IMG_2925.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2926.webp)
    ![alt text](img/IMG_2927.webp)

You've completed the LumenPnP frame assembly. Next is installing the [electronics](../electronics/index.md).
