content/en/docs/mechanical-assembly/populating-staging-plate/index.md, before:

---
title: "Populating the Staging Plate"
linkTitle: "Populating the Staging Plate"
weight: 90
description: >
  Mounting components to the staging plate 
---

We now have the main structure of the machine assembled! Now we'll mount some components to the bottom of the staging plate.

## Overview

Refer to the images below for referencing where to mount parts on the staging plate.

{{< container-image path="images/IMG_0746.JPG" alt="" >}}
{{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-1.png" alt="" >}}

## Soldering Pump

| Qty | Part               |
|----:|--------------------|
|   1 | Vacuum Pump        |
|   1 | Vacuum Pump Wire (Labeled "P1")  |
|   2 | Heatshrink (small) |

Some LumenPnP kits shipped with a pump that had its connector pre-soldered to it. If your pump is not pre-soldered, follow along here to prepare your pump.

1. Gather your Pump, the pump wire (labeled "P1"), and two lengths of heatshrink.
  {{< container-image path="images/Soldering Pump overview.jpg" alt="the necessary components to prepare the pump" >}}

2. Slip the heatshrink over the two exposed leads of the wire.
  {{< container-image path="images/Heatshrink slipped on leads.JPG" alt="Heatshrink slipped over the exposed leads of the pump wire" >}}

3. Wrap the red wire around the left lead as shown in the image below. Wrap the black wire around the right lead.
  {{< container-image path="images/wires wrapped around leads.JPG" alt="Red wire wrapped around the left lead, black wire warped around the right lead" >}}

4. Solder both wires to the pump leads. The polarity does not matter.
  {{< container-image path="images/wire soldered.JPG" alt="Wire soldered to the pump" >}}

5. Slip the heat shrink over the solder joints and motor lead. Use a hot air gun, lighter, or other heat source to shrink the heatshrink.
  {{< container-image path="images/hot air gun.png" alt="hot air gun.JPG" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/finished pump.JPG" alt="finished product" >}}

## Pump mount

| Qty | Part                  |
|----:|-----------------------|
|   1 | FDM-0025 (Pump Mount) |
|   4 | M3 Hex Nuts           |
|   2 | Rubber Band           |
|   1 | Vacuum Pump           |
|   2 | M3x10 machine screw   |

The first thing we'll mount to the staging plate is the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}}. This print suspends the pump using two rubber bands to ensure none of the vibration of the pump is transferred into the frame.

1. Start by press-fitting M3 nuts into the side recesses in the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}}.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-1-2.png" alt="Two Nut locations on the Pump Mount" >}}

2. Now we'll mount the pump in the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}} using a couple rubber bands. Start by grabbing the rubber band with both hands, giving it a half twist, and folding it over on itself, making two loops.
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0737.JPG" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0738.JPG" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0740.JPG" alt="" >}}

3. Now stretch each rubber band over each pair of pegs on the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}}. Guide the pump between each pair of bands so that it's suspended in the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}}.
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0742.JPG" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0743.JPG" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0744.JPG" alt="" >}}

4. Mount the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}} to the staging plate using two M3 x 10mm screws in the location shown below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-4-ALT.png" alt="Mounting position for the Pump" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0741.JPG" alt="The Pump assembly mounted on the staging plate" >}}

## Valve mount

| Qty | Part                   |
|----:|------------------------|
|   1 | FDM-0042 (Valve Mount) |
|   1 | Blowoff Valve          |
|   4 | M3 Hex Nut             |
|   6 | M3x8 machine screw     |

Now we'll attach the {{<tooltip "Valve Mount" "FDM-0042">}} to the staging plate.

5. Press fit four M3 nuts into the recesses in the {{<tooltip "Valve Mount" "FDM-0042">}}.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-5.png" alt="four nut locations in the Valve Mount" >}}

6. Use two M3x8mm screws to attach the valve to the {{<tooltip "Valve Mount" "FDM-0042">}} as shown below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-6.png" alt="attaching the valve to the valve mount with two screws" >}}

7. Use four M3x8mm screws to mount the {{<tooltip "Valve Mount" "FDM-0042">}} to the staging plate in the location shown below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-7-ALT.png" alt="attaching the valve to the staging plate" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0745.jpg" alt="" >}}

## Pneumatic Y splitter mount

| Qty | Part                |
|----:|---------------------|
|   1 | M3x30 machine screw |
|   1 | M3 Hex nut          |
|   1 | Y Splitter          |

8. Use an M3x30mm screw and an M3 nut to mount the pneumatic Y splitter to the staging plate as shown below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-8-ALT.png" alt="Attaching the Y Splitter to the Staging Plate" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/PXL_20220204_061125932.MP.jpg" alt="" >}}

## Bottom camera mount

| Qty | Part                       |
|----:|----------------------------|
|   1 | FDM-0019 (Up Light Mount)  |
|   1 | FDM-0020 (Up Camera Mount) |
|   1 | Up Ring Light PCB          |
|   1 | USB Camera (Bottom)        |
|   4 | M3x30 machine screw        |
|   4 | M3 Hex Nut                 |
|   4 | M2.5x8 machine screw       |

9. Stack the {{<tooltip "Up Light Mount" "FDM-0019">}}, the Up Ring Light, and the {{<tooltip "Up Camera Mount" "FDM-0020">}} together. (Note: the Up Ring Light is not pictured here)
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-9.png" alt="Assembling the Up Camera stack" >}}

10. Use four M3x30mm screws and four M3 nuts to attach the stack to the staging plate. The cable connector for the Up Ring Light should be facing down and to the left, away from the valve.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-10.png" alt="Up Camera Stack attached to the staging plate with the Up Ring Light's connector facing down and to the left" >}}

11. Loosen the screw on the camera so that we can adjust the camera's focus later. Even after doing so, it still might be difficult to rotate the lens. A light grip with some pliers and a gentle twist can help break the lens free and make it easier to rotate by hand. **Make sure your lens is loose before mounting it.**

12. Use four M2.5x8mm screws to mount the camera into the {{<tooltip "Up Camera Mount" "FDM-0020">}} by using the inner set of four holes and tapping directly into the plastic. Match the orientation to the image below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-12-ALT.png" alt="Up Camera Location on the staging plate" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0837.JPG" alt="Final assembly of the Up Camera and Up Ring Light, with proper cable orientation" >}}

## Nozzle Holder

| Qty | Part                     |
|----:|--------------------------|
|   1 | FDM-0024 (Nozzle Holder) |
|   3 | M3 Hex Nut               |
|   3 | M3x8 machine screw       |

13. Slide three M3 nuts into the slots in the back of the {{<tooltip "Nozzle Holder" "FDM-0024">}}.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-13.png" alt="Nuts inserted into the nozzle holder" >}}

14. Using three M3x10mm machine screws, tighten the {{<tooltip "Nozzle Holder" "FDM-0024">}} on top of the staging plate as shown below. Note: we will install the datum board later, ignore it in the photo below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-14-ALT.png" alt="Nozzle Holder location on the staging plate" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/PXL_20220206_182121691.MP.jpg" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/PXL_20220206_182234874.MP.jpg" alt="" >}}

## Next steps

Continue to [installing the motherboard]({{< relref "motherboard" >}}).

Commit message:

Use Super Lube on the camera lenses to make them easier to rotate
This helps a recurring issue noted by users during their build. Using a small amount of the Super Lube included with the kit makes it significantly easier to rotate the camera lenses.

Editor's Note: Since this content is repeated twice, it probably makes sense to eventually pull this into its own step (like we're doing with the tensioners in #15).

content/en/docs/mechanical-assembly/populating-staging-plate/index.md, after:

---
title: "Populating the Staging Plate"
linkTitle: "Populating the Staging Plate"
weight: 90
description: >
  Mounting components to the staging plate
---

We now have the main structure of the machine assembled! Now we'll mount some components to the bottom of the staging plate.

## Overview

Refer to the images below for referencing where to mount parts on the staging plate.

{{< container-image path="images/IMG_0746.JPG" alt="" >}}
{{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-1.png" alt="" >}}

## Soldering Pump

| Qty | Part               |
|----:|--------------------|
|   1 | Vacuum Pump        |
|   1 | Vacuum Pump Wire (Labeled "P1")  |
|   2 | Heatshrink (small) |

Some LumenPnP kits shipped with a pump that had its connector pre-soldered to it. If your pump is not pre-soldered, follow along here to prepare your pump.

1. Gather your Pump, the pump wire (labeled "P1"), and two lengths of heatshrink.
  {{< container-image path="images/Soldering Pump overview.jpg" alt="the necessary components to prepare the pump" >}}

2. Slip the heatshrink over the two exposed leads of the wire.
  {{< container-image path="images/Heatshrink slipped on leads.JPG" alt="Heatshrink slipped over the exposed leads of the pump wire" >}}

3. Wrap the red wire around the left lead as shown in the image below. Wrap the black wire around the right lead.
  {{< container-image path="images/wires wrapped around leads.JPG" alt="Red wire wrapped around the left lead, black wire warped around the right lead" >}}

4. Solder both wires to the pump leads. The polarity does not matter.
  {{< container-image path="images/wire soldered.JPG" alt="Wire soldered to the pump" >}}

5. Slip the heat shrink over the solder joints and motor lead. Use a hot air gun, lighter, or other heat source to shrink the heatshrink.
  {{< container-image path="images/hot air gun.png" alt="hot air gun.JPG" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/finished pump.JPG" alt="finished product" >}}

## Pump mount

| Qty | Part                  |
|----:|-----------------------|
|   1 | FDM-0025 (Pump Mount) |
|   4 | M3 Hex Nuts           |
|   2 | Rubber Band           |
|   1 | Vacuum Pump           |
|   2 | M3x10 machine screw   |

The first thing we'll mount to the staging plate is the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}}. This print suspends the pump using two rubber bands to ensure none of the vibration of the pump is transferred into the frame.

1. Start by press-fitting M3 nuts into the side recesses in the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}}.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-1-2.png" alt="Two Nut locations on the Pump Mount" >}}

2. Now we'll mount the pump in the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}} using a couple rubber bands. Start by grabbing the rubber band with both hands, giving it a half twist, and folding it over on itself, making two loops.
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0737.JPG" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0738.JPG" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0740.JPG" alt="" >}}

3. Now stretch each rubber band over each pair of pegs on the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}}. Guide the pump between each pair of bands so that it's suspended in the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}}.
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0742.JPG" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0743.JPG" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0744.JPG" alt="" >}}

4. Mount the {{<tooltip "Pump Mount" "FDM-0025">}} to the staging plate using two M3 x 10mm screws in the location shown below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-4-ALT.png" alt="Mounting position for the Pump" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0741.JPG" alt="The Pump assembly mounted on the staging plate" >}}

## Valve mount

| Qty | Part                   |
|----:|------------------------|
|   1 | FDM-0042 (Valve Mount) |
|   1 | Blowoff Valve          |
|   4 | M3 Hex Nut             |
|   6 | M3x8 machine screw     |

Now we'll attach the {{<tooltip "Valve Mount" "FDM-0042">}} to the staging plate.

5. Press fit four M3 nuts into the recesses in the {{<tooltip "Valve Mount" "FDM-0042">}}.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-5.png" alt="four nut locations in the Valve Mount" >}}

6. Use two M3x8mm screws to attach the valve to the {{<tooltip "Valve Mount" "FDM-0042">}} as shown below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-6.png" alt="attaching the valve to the valve mount with two screws" >}}

7. Use four M3x8mm screws to mount the {{<tooltip "Valve Mount" "FDM-0042">}} to the staging plate in the location shown below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-7-ALT.png" alt="attaching the valve to the staging plate" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0745.jpg" alt="" >}}

## Pneumatic Y splitter mount

| Qty | Part                |
|----:|---------------------|
|   1 | M3x30 machine screw |
|   1 | M3 Hex nut          |
|   1 | Y Splitter          |

8. Use an M3x30mm screw and an M3 nut to mount the pneumatic Y splitter to the staging plate as shown below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-8-ALT.png" alt="Attaching the Y Splitter to the Staging Plate" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/PXL_20220204_061125932.MP.jpg" alt="" >}}

## Bottom camera mount

| Qty | Part                       |
|----:|----------------------------|
|   1 | FDM-0019 (Up Light Mount)  |
|   1 | FDM-0020 (Up Camera Mount) |
|   1 | Up Ring Light PCB          |
|   1 | USB Camera (Bottom)        |
|   4 | M3x30 machine screw        |
|   4 | M3 Hex Nut                 |
|   4 | M2.5x8 machine screw       |
|   1 | Super Lube                 |

9. Stack the {{<tooltip "Up Light Mount" "FDM-0019">}}, the Up Ring Light, and the {{<tooltip "Up Camera Mount" "FDM-0020">}} together. (Note: the Up Ring Light is not pictured here)
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-9.png" alt="Assembling the Up Camera stack" >}}

10. Use four M3x30mm screws and four M3 nuts to attach the stack to the staging plate. The cable connector for the Up Ring Light should be facing down and to the left, away from the valve.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-10.png" alt="Up Camera Stack attached to the staging plate with the Up Ring Light's connector facing down and to the left" >}}

11. Just as with the top camera, you need to make sure you can rotate the camera's lens to adjust its focus. First carefully remove the set screw on the side of the lens assembly that is holding the lens in place. Next, unscrew the lens from the camera. You might need a light grip with pliers (preferably with soft grips) to get it to turn. With the lens removed, apply a **very small** amount of Super Lube to the lens threads. Be careful not to get any of the lubricant inside or on the lens. Screw the lens back into the camera and work the lubricant into the threads. Save the lubricant as you'll use it again later. Finally, add the set screw back to the side of the lens assembly. Tighten the set screw just enough to keep the lens in place but not so much that it prevents you from adjusting the lens with a little force, as you'll need to adjust the lens after the camera is mounted.

12. Use four M2.5x8mm screws to mount the camera into the {{<tooltip "Up Camera Mount" "FDM-0020">}} by using the inner set of four holes and tapping directly into the plastic. Match the orientation to the image below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-12-ALT.png" alt="Up Camera Location on the staging plate" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/IMG_0837.JPG" alt="Final assembly of the Up Camera and Up Ring Light, with proper cable orientation" >}}

## Nozzle Holder

| Qty | Part                     |
|----:|--------------------------|
|   1 | FDM-0024 (Nozzle Holder) |
|   3 | M3 Hex Nut               |
|   3 | M3x8 machine screw       |

13. Slide three M3 nuts into the slots in the back of the {{<tooltip "Nozzle Holder" "FDM-0024">}}.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-13.png" alt="Nuts inserted into the nozzle holder" >}}

14. Using three M3x10mm machine screws, tighten the {{<tooltip "Nozzle Holder" "FDM-0024">}} on top of the staging plate as shown below. Note: we will install the datum board later, ignore it in the photo below.
  {{< container-image path="images/Populating-The-Staging-Plate-Step-14-ALT.png" alt="Nozzle Holder location on the staging plate" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/PXL_20220206_182121691.MP.jpg" alt="" >}}
  {{< container-image path="images/PXL_20220206_182234874.MP.jpg" alt="" >}}

## Next steps

Continue to [installing the motherboard]({{< relref "motherboard" >}}).
